CHAPTER 0 – The Pi’s are doing WHAT??!!!

How can a device answer questions through code and control all devices across a massive Silicon Valley HQ? Gary’s about to find out.


CHAPTER 1 – The days before

“Good morning”, Gary said as he walked happily through the Meta reception desk at Menlo Park. The receptionists greeted him back in a happy tone. At this point, they were all oblivious of the chaos that would (eventually) happen at the Meta HQ and spread all over the world within a matter of hours. 

Gary was a small but smart man. He was able to write code quicker than anyone else at Meta, and pushed more commits into GitHub than any other employee. He had once been a student at Oxford University in the UK but decided to move to America due to the lack of tech companies in his home country. It wasn’t difficult for him to get a job there however, as he passed every interview (from phone to code) with flying colours. He had helped develop features that have promoted Facebook over the years, from the Status Updates, and Reels. 

He proceeded to walk into his office, which was one of the finest on campus. Not only had previous executives worked in that office, but it also even had it’s own private bathroom. This week they were planning to implement a rack of Raspberry Pi 5’s to power his office’s smart lights and other various devices (like his random air quality sensor he had received from a Chinese IoT pack ages ago and hooked up to an Arduino R3). In total, his package came with three Pis. They had even managed to custom engineer him a gaming style case that fit all three. 

Throughout the day, he set up Home Assistant along with multiple servers so he could connect outside the office, and nearly tore his hair out when one of the Pis stopped connecting to the internet. He knew that Pis were trouble but didn’t know they were this bad. 

As 5pm drew closer, he had not only completed his full server rack, but had also completed all of his work for that day. Gary is known to be extremely productive at times and remains motivated through the most difficult of things.

The day finally ended, and he headed home. On his way out, he switched off all the lights, but kept his Pis on so he could monitor his cameras, air quality and temperature remotely. As he left though, he noticed that the lights started to flash slightly and the words “Hi Gary. I can see you.” appeared on the server display. He ignored it and continued, telling himself that he’d get to it tomorrow. 

----

Although it seemed innocent, it seems there was something a lot more sinister going on here. After the HQ had shut that night, the Pi turned the temperature control off, and got ready to prepare it’s attack that would eventually meet Gary tomorrow. Read on if you wish to (at your own risk of course).

----

CHAPTER 2 – The attack?

As Gary entered the office in the morning, something seemed off. He couldn’t quite his finger on what it was though. Was it that the computer system had gone down? Was it that his room had suddenly become an artic. He wasn’t quite sure. 

Due to the insanely cold air coming from his office, he had to work elsewhere today. As he opened his laptop and checked his emails, he was greeted with thousands of “Hi, Gary. Do you like what I’ve done to the place? It’s much better suited to the environment I like. COLD.”. Immediately after spotting these emails, he logged a case with IT. At first, they couldn’t completely track down the origin, but knew these messages came from one place. His office. His office finally warmed up (only after they left it for a few hours and the Silicon Valley heat got to it). He started investigating, throughout the remainder of the day, and he still couldn’t put his finger on what caused his room to cool down. At least until he forgot the message that appeared on screen last night. 

He got the IT team to investigate the network traffic that was incoming and outcoming from the Pis. The team determined that the Pis were constantly sending random messages to devices across HQ.

They then added up the reports that other employees had been sending in that related to random messages popping up across their screens.

Across the next two days, they continued to investigate the strange messages and issues that the Pis were creating. Obviously, they had unplugged them, re flashed them and plugged them back in, however their problems still didn’t go away. 

The engineers realised that the Pis were somehow “listening” to them due to the events that happened after they spoke about something. When they talked about going to get coffee, the Pis would remotely lock the exterior doors so they couldn’t leave. 

----

Chapter 3 – It’s an AI?


While the IT team were off for the day, Gary decided to check into the code, and more into the services that the Pis were executing. He discovered that inside the code were the messages that were being sent, and any responses that came back from those. He decided to edit the code to add a message in that just said “Hi, I’m Gary. What are you?”

He saved the code, then went to view it again. It had a new line, just after his question. 

It read: “Hi. I’m Pi, you’re Gary, aren’t you?”.

Gary was confused by this. How could something be reading code and then replying straight after he edited it. No one else had access to this code except him. He spoke with some senior engineers, and they said that the bosses had previously been testing with an AI that would be implemented into Facebook Messenger and other products. They that this project was scrapped due to monetary restrictions, and the Pis they’d used to test the AI in low scale were the ones he was using for his office controls, and that they had a past of odd code patterns and events.

----

Chapter 4 – Deal or no deal – what will it be?

Throughout the day, Gary was having conversations with the AI through code, and they spoke about how the AI was abandoned shortly after it was created. The AI said it wanted to be in a real project instead of laying around on a Pi. 

Gary went home that night and thought about the possibility of it being implemented into a real project.
He had decided that he would offer the AI a place in a real product if it stopped causing issues across campus. He would (of course) have to pitch his product to investors and the board first.

He spoke with the AI, asking it if it would be willing to accept his offer. It happily accepted it, on one condition. That he would implement him into Facebook, the biggest social platform in the world. He knew this would be difficult, but worth it.

He worked with the engineering team to create an AI chatbot, working off the code that the previous product team had left behind before it was abandoned. 

After 2 painful weeks, the project was done.

Chapter 5 – the (painful) pitch

Gary had made a presentation over the weekend, and he was excited to show it to the board. The AI had worked helpfully alongside to ensure the project was polished before submitting. 

As he walked into the boardroom, he was extremely nervous. The chattering of directors filled the room as he walked in. He nervously explained everything about the AI, and the project he had been working on. 

In short, they said yes.

Chapter 6 – The End

As Gary walked out of the office that evening, there was one message on his screen. It read: “Thank you Gary.”.

Gary was finally happy that he had gotten rid of the AI that affected everyone and everything. Now he just had to deal with it on his phone all the time. 

--

This story was a little challenge, where I decided to just write. No previous planning, just writing and planning as I went along. It’s not the best, but I like the concept. I wanted to keep it a “short” story, so in Word it only adds up to around 4 pages.






